ocpbugs18537: Documenting ingressWithoutClassName alert (#87416)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-patch-fields-example.adoc

//
// * networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/configuring-ingress-cluster-patch-fields.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-patch-fields-example_{context}"]
= Example scenario: Patching Ingress objects to resolve an ingressWithoutClassName alert

The `ingressClassName` field specifies the name of the 'IngressClass' object. You must define the `ingressClassName` field for each Ingress object.

If you have not defined the `ingressClassName` field for an Ingress object, you could experience routing issues. After 24 hours, you will receive an 'ingressWithoutClassName' alert to remind you to set the `ingressClassName` field.

.Procedure

To ensure proper routing and functionality, patch the Ingress objects with a completed `ingressClassName` field by following these steps:

. List all `IngressClass` objects:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get ingressclass
----

. List all `Ingress` objects in all namespaces:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get ingress -A
----

. Patch the Ingress object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch ingress/<ingress_name> --type=merge --patch '{"spec":{"ingressClassName":"openshift-default"}}'
----
+ 

> Replace `<ingress-name>` with the name of the Ingress object. This command patches the Ingress object to include the desired Ingress class name.

Reviewer: @DCChadwick I'm not surprised. I remember awhile back when we were discussing capitalization/API object formatting, for some reason someone wanted Ingress to be capitalized (with no markup). This has luckily been changed and updated in the SSG to lowercase: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#ingress

Feel free to reach out (or have your CS reach out) to me if you need any further info/discussion on this!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/configuring-ingress-cluster-patch-fields.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-patch-fields-example_{context}"]
= Example scenario: Patching ingress objects to resolve ingressWithoutClassName alert

> An `ingressClassName` is a reference to an `IngressClass` resource that contains additional configuration, including the name of the controller that should implement the class. Starting from {product-title} 4.12, you must specify an `ingressClassName` for each ingress object to ensure proper routing and functionality. An `IngressWithoutClassName` alert fires when an ingress object does not have an `ingressClassName` specified for longer than one day. The alert is intended to remind users to set the `ingressClassName` to avoid potential routing issues.

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion, maybe break this para up:
```suggestion
An `ingressClassName` is a reference to an `IngressClass` resource that contains additional configuration, including the name of the controller that should implement the class. Starting from {product-title} 4.12, you must specify an `ingressClassName` for each ingress object to ensure proper routing and functionality.

An `IngressWithoutClassName` alert fires when an ingress object does not have an `ingressClassName` specified for longer than one day. The alert is intended to remind users to set the `ingressClassName` to avoid potential routing issues.
```

Author: I like it. Thank you!

The absence of an `ingressClassName` can lead to improper ingress functionality, as the ingress controller may not know how to handle the ingress object. This can impact the accessibility of services exposed via ingress. To ensure proper routing and functionality, patch the ingress objects with the appropriate `ingressClassName`.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 3: i think we need to give a per-requist that the already create ingress class will not have a 'ingressClassName' name. then only we can patch to that ingress class object.

Author: I think a prerequisite like this will cause confusion because you can patch an ingress object with a field whether or not that field has been previously defined -- either to define a field that is missing or to overwrite a preexisting field. I don't want readers to think you can only patch the ingressClassName field if the field is missing.

> To patch the ingress objects with the appropriate ingressClassName, follow these steps: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To patch the ingress objects with the appropriate `ingressClassName`, follow these steps: 
```

Author: done

> . List all `IngressClasses`:

Reviewer 2: Add "objects" per [repo guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting) (and therefore drop to singular `IngressClass`):
```suggestion
. List all `IngressClass` objects:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $   oc get ingressclass

Reviewer 2: Blank spaces:
```suggestion
$ oc get ingressclass
```

> $   oc get ingressclass

Reviewer 3: the out put can be like this, but this is not mandatory
```
mjoseph@mjoseph-mac Downloads % oc get ingressclass
NAME                CONTROLLER                      PARAMETERS                                        AGE
openshift-default   openshift.io/ingress-to-route   IngressController.operator.openshift.io/default   12h 
```

----

> . List all Ingress objects:

Reviewer 2: Markup the API object references:
```suggestion
. List all `Ingress` objects:
```
Also, I believe `-A` means `--all-namespaces`, so maybe mention that in the step, too:
```suggestion
. List all `Ingress` objects in all namespaces:
```

Author: correct, docs updated

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get ingress -A

Reviewer 3: the output of this can be like this without a class name
```
mjoseph@mjoseph-mac Downloads % oc get ingress -A
NAMESPACE   NAME                 CLASS    HOSTS         ADDRESS   PORTS   AGE
default     ingress-with-class   <none>   foo.bar.com             80      27s
```

----

> . Patch the Ingress object:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Patch the `Ingress` object:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch ingress/<ingress-name> --type=merge --patch '{"spec":{"ingressClassName":"openshift-default"}}'
> ----
> + 
> Replace `<ingress-name>` with the name of the ingress object. This command patches the ingress object to include the desired ingress class name.

Reviewer 2: Underscore for multi-word user-replaceable values:
```suggestion
$ oc patch ingress/<ingress_name> --type=merge --patch '{"spec":{"ingressClassName":"openshift-default"}}'
----
+ 
Replace `<ingress_name>` with the name of the ingress object. This command patches the ingress object to include the desired ingress class name.
```

Author: thanks

> . Ignore or silence alerts:
> +
> If necessary, the alerts can be ignored or silenced. However, it is recommended to resolve the underlying issue by setting the `ingressClassName`.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to use "Optional:" and drop the duplicated bits:
```suggestion
. Optional: If necessary, ignore or silence alerts. However, it is recommended to resolve the underlying issue by setting the `ingressClassName`.
```

> . Verify with application providers:
> +
> Confirm with application providers or ISV partners that there is no expectation for the `ingressClassName` to be unpopulated. Adding an ingress class name may be necessary for proper ingress functionality.

Reviewer 2: To better match the suggested change for the previous step. Also:

* Reduce duplication
* Not sure that the colon and new para structure is necessary
* Use "might" instead of "may" per IBM SG (better for translation)

```suggestion
. Verify with application providers or ISV partners that there is no expectation for the `ingressClassName` to be unpopulated. Adding an ingress class name might be necessary for proper ingress functionality.
```
Alternatively, you could turn this into a single-step `.Verification` section:
```suggestion
.Verification

 * Confirm with application providers or ISV partners that there is no expectation for the `ingressClassName` to be unpopulated. Adding an ingress class name might be necessary for proper ingress functionality.
```

Author: done, thank you!
